Dynamic Web Pages
-
The major distinction between a dynamic web page and a static page is that the content of one changes according to the user inputs and the other remains fixed.
Examples of static web page- Contact Info Page
Example of dynamic web page- Social Media platforms

The dynamic web pages include server side processing to generate HTML content based on the user input. One of the major backbone of handling these server side requests and
providing the appropriate response is Java Servlets. Java Servlets are classes that handle these requests and responses on the server side.

Servlets
-
**Understanding the Servlet API:**
- Servlet (Interface)

  -This is the root interface in the Servlet API and contains five abstract methods namely
  *init(ServletConfig config)* , *service(ServletRequest request, ServletResponse response)*, *destroy(), getServletConfig(), getServletInfo().*

- GenericServlet Class(Abstract Class)
  -This abstract class implements the Servlet Interface and is intended to be subclasses by servlet developers. 

- HttpServlet Class(Abstract Class)
  -Another abstract class that implements the Servlet interface and has some additional methods such as *doGet(req,res), doPost(req,res), doPut(req,res), doDelete(req,res)*

Thus to create a servlet there are quite a few ways of doing it.

 - implementing the Servlet interface which will require you to provide implementation of the abstract methods
 - extending the GenericServlet class
 - extending HttpServlet class

An important note: While implementing the Servlet interface directly we also implement a couple more interfaces which are *Serializable* and *ServletConfig.* 

The web.xml file is used a servlet deployment tool where we mention which url gets mapped to which class when the HTML form requests an action. Thus the flow starts from the HTML form action and it goes to the web.xml file to find if the url pattern is mentioned or not. Note that the action should be same as the url pattern. When the url is matched it finds if there are any classes mapped to it. The request is then sent to the respective servlet which performs the server side operations. If no HTTP method is mentioned then by default the GET is performed.
When a client sends an HTTP request to the URL mapped to your servlet, the servlet container determines which servlet should handle the request based on the URL pattern and the HTTP method of the request.

**How Servlets Communicate between each other**

Servlets can communicate between each other through the RequestDispatcher class and Redirect.

*ReqquestDispatcher dispatcher= request.getRequestDispatcher("url");*

- The dispatcher is the reference of type RequestDispatcher
- The servlet container provides an internal implementation of the RequestDispatcher interface. Using the instance request of HttpServletRequest object we call the getRequestDispatcher() method which returns an instance of the same.
- The dispatcher object can now be used to either *forward or include* requests.

  The forward(req,res) method involves forwarding the request to the next Servlet class, ignoring the response of the current Servlet.
  When a servlet include(req,res) another servlet, the output generated by the included servlet is included in the response sent back to the client.Including is typically used when one servlet needs to include the output of another servlet as part of its own response.









